Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much. Okay, let's go. Hi
everyone. Today's Friday, January the
23rd, and this is the Moneyball morning
report for the Benzinga Pro platform.
charts by trendpider and gamma flows by
menthroq. Let's start with the e- mini
S&P and have a look at what's going on.
This is the 4hour chart. It's showing
where the majority of supply is sitting
above us and demand below us. From this
4hour perspective, we can see trend is
down above us but up below us.
We've got a crossurren certainly because
that downward flow is not a pretty trend
line.
However, we've had many touches at the
line near 6930.
That's really going to be
the line in the sand for today. And that
line in the sand is squishy. It's like
a, you know, a chubby marker. So with
that chubby crayon, we can look at a low
near the pre-market lows of 69.25 and
some change or above all the way to
6940. So it's pretty noisy from that
perspective if you're an intraday
trader, but it does present as an area
that's going to be a decision-making
space. Let's collapse into the 30 minute
and take a look at the range formations.
First of all, this line that I gave us
at 6934 was tested several times
yesterday. And so what we can see in the
past is how to deal with line breaks.
First things first, old resistance, new
supports, trend is forward. The
anticipation
of a break here implies that it's going
to find support and try to recover. Why?
because trend is generally up. We know
that from the past, right? We fill the
gap. Now, uh overnight inventory today
is a little
well, it's it's basically flat. It's
basically flat. I'm going to remove the
ray.
I'm going to keep the line as important.
But what I would like to do, actually,
no,
I'm going to remove that annotation and
we're going to use the base of the
pre-market session, the low as the line
in the sand today. Below it, we're going
to see sellers try to take the
advantage. Now, again, what is trend?
It's sideways, but it's also moving
sideways from prior upward motion. So
this accumulation of inventory is going
to potentially suggest a couple of
things.
One, it breaks, comes into the demand
area, bounces,
and then fails. That's more downward
flow. If there's the downward flow here,
we're going to clone the measured move
event
and
that's going to put us down at 6880.
Now, the anchored VWAP from that line is
68.84.
Let's create an alert there in the event
that something like this happens. Okay.
Now to find the lower edges, you just
multiply
the zones
and walk through them. Okay, that's
going to be the general area. Tremendous
amount of supply here. That's probably
the low edge. And that number is
our 6830. And we know that number really
well. That's where we had a very nice
bounce zone from days past.
going to do the same thing,
create an alert. So, we know that's the
baseline of support. Now, let's talk
about the upside.
If
we come into this area and this break
that we had earlier in the overnight is
the low that holds, we're still in value
area, right? The majority of the price
action yesterday is inside of the price
action. The price action today is inside
of that.
If we hold it,
we go to the top of the box. So, we
stair step through, right? If you want
to say, "Hey, I want to take a long
here."
Nothing wrong with that. Your stop going
to be a little bit wide. might be better
to collapse into a tighter time frame
and look for the line around 6834
to present as bullish
and then once it gets over the VWAP
um which is 68
what is that 6860 guys are very blurry
this morning no 6840
then we've got ourselves some more
upside into the supply zone and value
area high that's around 6970
And then we have upward motion. What's
likely to happen? We're likely to move
to the north, right? We're at the bottom
of the trend. Two days in motion. Trend
slightly up. Momentum starting to lift.
It is much more likely that we change
direction to the upside. Okay, let's get
to the NQ. Golly, my eyes this morning
just not focusing.
Let's go to the 4 hour
4our formation.
Interesting.
All right. Uh let's
let's take a look at yesterday's low.
That's going to be yesterday's uh
trading area low. That's going to be our
general
range. And
let's put yesterday's high as the
contention zone for the breakout. Supply
sitting above us 25,850.
Boy, do we know that line. And then,
excuse me, did I say 2500? 25,850.
And of course 26,000 which is just above
26,000 is just above value area high.
It's very interesting. We are back in
the zone of value
upward formations. We have the downward
drift. Yes,
but they are desperately trying to break
it. And we've got this upward flow. Lot
of demand. Foot wall still down at
25,000.
Call wall is trapped here below us.
Well, it's just breaking through 25,600
or so. Let's go to the 30 minute chart.
See what's
so the same sitting just as the ES is in
range and in value of the prior days
formations. The general flow has us up
above value area high over the range of
the days. Uh demand sitting well below
us. We got an alert
trigger yesterday.
So I'm going to leave that line in the
sand at 25,486.
But we are making higher lows. So
today's
floor
sits potentially at 25,500.
And when I say a floor, I mean the
dividing line between buyers and
sellers.
What is the trend? Generally upward.
What does that imply? It implies the
break is likely to bounce. It did it
here
yesterday and it did it here earlier
this morning. So, this tells us that
it's more than likely to head back up to
the top of the box. What's the fly in
the ointment? Well, one, anything could
happen in the market. And two,
our VWAP is essentially flat. And so, we
don't have any pressure of buyer saying,
"Hey, I want to go north. I want to go
south." Whatever. What we are seeing is
accumulation of inventory. And when we
have accumulation of inventory, it can
move all the way back and forth in
between these lines before cresting to
the top of the edge.
So what do we want to do?
We want to
uh
clone the boxes.
on either side. See what essentially
happens to. Okay, so the floor or the
dividing line between buyers and sellers
is this 25,550.
Remember, because trend is up, there's a
likelihood that it dips below and
bounces then holds.
So far, it's dipped just into the area.
It's bounced
and looks like it's holding. So, as long
as we hold this floor, we've got upside
pressure. If we lose the floor, we have
downside pressure. What's What's the
scenario telling us then? Wait until it
gets to the edge or firms up better
around here to take the position wall.
Right? Anything can happen.
We'll peek at the YM4 just a quick sec.
also in range, also in value,
still sitting in the box. However, they
got to the top of the box yesterday and
today fading. So, this is going to be
pretty important for the YM traders.
They desperately are going to want to
see
the recapture
of this 29 49,500 area. That's going to
be incredibly important. Otherwise, what
it's done is bounced off of the floor of
this upper range
and
failed to get the top
and then lost that edge. So, right now,
this looks like a short. This one looks
like a short. That's interesting.
Let's see. RTI.
No, this one's still in an upward trend.
Dips or buys?
Definitely.
How big might the dip be?
RTY traders, probably a good idea to
pay attention to
the 2,735ish
zone. That's going to be much more
important
for the price action to hold a very
large supply zone at 2,710
in the tighter time frame. So keep your
eye on that line as a pullback that
holds that allows you to move to the
north. Today looks very jagged. It is a
Friday, so we do have a tendency to have
these bullish formations on Friday, but
the price action is incredibly jagged.
Let's go to Bitcoin, micro Bitcoin.
First of all, let's take a look at the 4
hour. We're still caught in this very
choppy edge. Floorboard is rising.
We've got an upward trend here. So, the
recovery,
it's in such a messy patch, but the the
recovery of the pool wall is going to be
incredibly important. And we know that
number at 90,000, right?
So, if we let's put an alert here at
90,000.
That's the do or die line in my mind
that separates the buyers and sellers
from
each other where the buyers take over
the strength above 90 and the sellers
have the strength below 90s. And so what
the traders are doing is
trying to hold value area low. The break
below value area low gives us more
downside pressure.
It's very messy here.
It's very messy. Supply levels below at
87.
You know, if you're looking for an ideal
setup,
I do not like anything
below
90,500
for long side pressure.
I don't. And for upside pressure,
I would be most content to wait until
we get
into
the demand zones down here at 87,000 and
watch for them to behave.
This is my fault anyway. So that's
that's what I'm staring down. Okay,
let's let's take a look at net gas.
United States is in a dreadful uh winter
storm.
It's covering literally half the nation.
So that is going to put Nat Gas up.
It's really trying to break through.
It's essentially in range and in value.
So the ideal buy zone
is somewhere
down here at 37.
If we actually get a chance to test that
zone, that would be ideal. Notice what's
happening at the tops. This is not a
higher low, higher high formation. They
are retracing each other. So if you
consider we had the breakout there.
Notice it breaks out and fades. So the
actual intraday trade is a short here.
It breaks out again
and it still collapses. So watch the
breakout hold above this zone. But we
still have so much supply here that it
makes it very dangerous to be long.
Essentially, we wait on the path that
gives us that upward flow up over the
top. That's the first resistance zone.
Let it come back and we buy the dip.
Okay,
I want to put an alert there, but it's
too close to price.
Let's take a look at oil.
4hour chart shows oil finally lifting up
over $60.
That's
that suggests it's moving to the top of
the inventory accumulation box, which is
right around
$61.
It might we might call it
uh $60.80, 80 cents, but it it could
just push its way through
an alert there.
Really, we expect it to reverse and then
pull back for that inventory to hold the
edge. I still like the dip buying
formations here. At any point in time,
the price action can move right back
down to the bottom of the box. It's not
showing any clear continuation, only
accumulation.
from a big perspective. And so what we
do is wait for that box to resolve
properly
if we intend to sit in a trade for a
long period of time. If we are scalp
traders, we know that the top of the
edges are going to give us a great
zone for resistance as a long as it does
not break through the highs and pull
back for a higher low. We can't see
that. If we come in, if we break out and
then pull back for a higher low, it's
got more upward flow. So, it would be
the look above and go.
All right. Very messy chart formation.
Probably not going to look any better on
the 30 minute chart except it clearly
shows all the supply up there. You want
to be very careful staying long doesn't
mean you can't be long. Staying long and
not making higher lows and higher highs
tells you that something is in the mix.
So, you want to be careful there.
Let's take a look at silver.
It seems pretty evident that the traders
want to test 100. What happens after
that?
I don't know. I mean that clearly
there's a it feels like a a a
game
here. They're trying to game it into
that 100. Not that it matters one way or
another. It really doesn't how it's
getting there. But that is a very
important line in the sand. Take a look.
This is why I talk about inventory
accumulation and then distribution.
We sit in the box
and build inventory.
The breaks reverse and then they break
out. But test after test after test
after test after test and then holding
the congestion zone suggests
that the upward pressure event is going
to win.
And that's exactly what happened here.
breakout action and in the overnight
brand new highs $985.
We're probably easily going to test 100.
What do you What do you expect there? I
don't have any clue. What I do know is
technical analysis says in an upward
trend dips or buys. What's our overnight
inventory? It's very long. And of
course, the traders don't care that it's
long. They they don't really care at
all.
[snorts]
They don't care about correcting
inventory is what I mean. We broke out
of these edges. All of these are
breakaway pads.
I'm going to remove that alert, but
leave it as a line that shows that it
did trigger as an alert. And the next
resistance slashnew support is 96,000.
That's pretty far away from excuse me
$96.
That's pretty far away. Wouldn't that be
funny? 96,000. Holy cow. So, um,
what do we want to see here? We had a
pretty solid dip, but the inventory
event
looks to be around and about here. Let's
clone that.
Yes. See, it comes to the bottom of the
box right around here. Old resistance,
new sport. It's going to stair step its
way up,
cloning to the top. So, frontline
support
for the buyers taking a bounce is
$97.50. 50 and then this 9660
$96.60
below is the real breakout area.
So our breakaway formation
looks like $9920.
And that's what we're staring down,
ladies and gentlemen, right there above
the VWAP. Trend is up. momentum is a
little mixed, right? Because the VWAP is
flat, but those pullbacks
into $98.30
and 37, they look pretty good.
They look pretty good. We probably will
trigger all of these
today
in some form or fashion, but this is
headed to more than likely we see price
action pointing to 100.
And then you know it is what it is.
Value area high $96.60.
We could have a test there.
Not sure if we will. Okay, let's take a
look at gold
upward flows doing very nicely
almost
again. Does it look like they're going
to try and kiss the call wall
at 5,000 for gold? I'm going to say yes.
This is why we look at accumulation
and then distribution. We can see
smaller pockets of that moving back and
forth, but the big pockets really tell
us where the breakaway formations are.
Let's go to the 30-inut chart. See what
the traders are doing.
A pretty sideways accumulation event
into the end of the day and the
overnight. So that inventory box we
clone. We can see it broke the bottom of
it and then recovered.
Traders are going to want to get above
this
4,9
60. Maybe it's above the VWAP.
Clearly a line in the sand.
What What do we do there? I would
suggest that we wait on the line in the
sand on until it gets there and watch
them duke it out on maybe a 5minute
chart and decide where you want to go.
Supply sits above
49.88
4988 supply there could easily squeeze
it to 5,000.
Let's clone this
and our new line
and then another gamma line from MET Q
at 5,030.
We did break through yesterday. We broke
through the breakout line of
4900. That was our breakaway formation.
It could sit easily as a support zone
in general. It could look at the this is
value area heavy heavy congestion in the
zones between 4860
4840 to 4870.
Right. Okay.
Let's
put an alert for the breakaway.
My brain is on standby.
Perfect.
We can see the breakaway line. $4,989.
That gets us all the way up to 5,000 and
beyond. Who' have thought it?
Who would have thunk it? All right,
let's take a look at SPY.
SPY is still in heavy congestion on the
4hour formation, but certainly rising.
Same sort of pattern. Higher lows,
excuse me. Yes. Higher lows, lower
highs. The break is going to give us a
pressure event. value area high $691.
Very I think it's that's a key level. I
suspect that is a very key level.
Below us,
we have supply and support at $685.
Let's leave these areas as our key
support zones. We have not tested them.
We are moving up. We can say, hey, if I
see 687, I could try a buy. However,
it's probably a better consideration
to look at the alert above
and choose that as
a breakout.
That's what I would do. That's what
that's that's what I suspected it would
be better to do. Here's here's what
we're looking at. Now, this looks like a
penant, right? Holding a floor with a
lower high. If it holds the floor with
the lower high, penants often break in
direction of the pole.
Everything appears to look to the
upside.
That being said, dips are still the
buys. The breakaways,
you have to really make sure that you
can handle the risk of the breakaway
failing. And so far, every single high
we've made, we faded out of it before
breaking
into a higher low. So, we just need to
watch out for these areas that top and
exhaust themselves at the top of supply.
And that looks like 691.
Okay. All right, everybody. Take care. I
know long. Just zip through which piece
you want. I just wanted to get a lot of
them there for you. You know what's
going on. Be careful. Trade small,
light, and tight. Take care.